#labels Phase-Deploy
#sidebar TableOfContent
The library might or might not be plugged into your favorite genealogical-application. But as long as you have your family data available in a 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GEDCOM gedcom]http://gedcom2sem.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/wiki-images/icon_external_link_blue.png
file, you can always use the library on a command line. 

Get the latest version from the download section and unpack it. 
The contents of the zip and the tar.gz are identical. 
Below a partial example to execute a command. 
The ovals in the diagram on the [overview] page represent such commands. 
Replace the dots (...) with the  files from the same diagram. 
Put the output file last; the order of rules files is significant: they may need the results of a previous one. 

See also the [Configuration notes] on the configuration files.
{{{
java -Xmx1024M -cp unzipped/gedcom2sem-XXX.jar gedcom2sem.semweb.Select ...
}}}
The download provides these
[https://code.google.com/p/gedcom2sem/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Fsrc%2Fmain%2Fscripts examples].
The 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Batch_file .bat]http://gedcom2sem.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/wiki-images/icon_external_link_blue.png
files are for Windows and the 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shell_script .sh]http://gedcom2sem.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/wiki-images/icon_external_link_blue.png
files are for Mac/Unix.
Window users can simply double-click the unzipped bat files. 
Mac/Unix users should open a terminal, go to the directory with the unpacked sh files, assign execute rigths (`chmod +x *.sh`) and run a command (for example: `./convert.sh`). Merge and adjust the file arguments to get the output you want with the input you have.

See also these [https://code.google.com/p/gedcom2sem/source/browse/trunk/src/test/java/gedcom2sem/BatchExamples.java examples] expressed in java `JUnit` tests. 