#sidebar TableOfContent
<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Why does the converter need URI's? =
The semantic web uses URIs to identify objects. The ID's of gedcom entities are inserted into URI's for that purpose. When your GedCom is published somewhere with a page per entity (such as I12 for an INDI and F34 for a FAM), it is good practice to use these URL's as URI. For entities that don't have pages invent URI's with a similar construction that will not be used for another purpose.

URI versus URL (in short): A URI is an _identifier_, it is unique, might but need not resolve to a web-page. A URL is a _locater_ and does resolve to a web page. 

= Does dbPedia have resources in my language? =

Try the mashup query dbpediaLanguages.arq Note that not all can be queried directly.

= What properties are commonly available? =
Try the mashup queries:
  *      geonamesProperties.arq
  *      geonamesRelatedEntities.arq
  *      dbpediaRelatedEntities.arq
  *      dbpediaProperties.arq

= Some places do have a geoNameID in the mashup input, but the result of semweb.Select with mashup.arg shows no coordinates. =

The free services of `GeoNames` and `DbPedia` are not allways reliable so you might have to repeat semweb.Mashup. The command semweb.Mashup is designed not to download from `GeoNames` again what is already present. `DbPedia` is allways queried to create direct links, but nothing is downloaded because it is too much and can be queried directly. 

= Skipping xxx.arq: Lexical error at line 1, column 2. Encountered: "\u00bb" (187), after : "\u00ef" =

You probably saved the arq file as an UTF-8 with a byte-order-mark. Typically Window's NotePad adds that BOM when you choose to save as UTF-8. Normaly these bytes do not show, but with the command "type" in a command window, they show up as funny characters. Try to save as ANSII. 